feat: add theming with react-navigtation guide (#1860)
callstack/react-native-paper: docs/pages/8. theming with React Navigation.md

In this guide we will look into how to apply theming for an application using `react-native-paper` and `react-navigation` at the same time.

The example application for this guide can be found [here](https://github.com/matkoson/paperNavigationTheming).

> Offering different theme options, especially dark/light ones, is currently more and more a standard requirement of the modern mobile application, fortunately both `React Navigation` and `React Native Paper` support configurable theming out-of-the-box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offering different theme options, especially dark/light ones, is currently more and more a standard requirement of the modern mobile application. Fortunately, both `React Navigation` and `React Native Paper` support configurable theming out-of-the-box.
```

But how to make them work together?

> To start following with this guide, clone the [repo](https://github.com/matkoson/paperNavigationTheming), and checkout the branch `startingPoint`.

Reviewer: I don't like the idea of telling users to clone the repo to start with the guide. I would prefer to keep this guide simple enough so everyone can understand just by reading it. We can mention at the end that there is a repo with more advanced use cases and if anybody is interested can check it out. What do you think?

Author: I think you both have a point there, I'll definitely adjust the guide, so it wouldn't assume the user wants to clone the repo. I also like the idea of adding headers. Thanks for the review @Trancever, @jbinda . I will re-ask for you review once amends are implemented.

> In order for our themes to work, both libraries require a wrapper to be used in the entry point of our application, in this case it is `App.tsx`.

Reviewer: I would not mention specific file names because of the reason I wrote above.

Author: `App.tsx` reference removed.

`React Navigation` exposes `NavigationContainer` which ensures that navigation works correctly, but also accepts `theme` as optional prop. Read more about setting up navigation [here](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/getting-started/).
For `React Native Paper` theme to work, we need use `PaperProvider` also at our entry point.

> Fortunately, both `React Navigation` and `React Native Paper` offer very similar API when it comes to theming. We can import default themes in light and dark variants from both. We will do just that in `App.tsx`.

Reviewer: Same as above

Author: `App.tsx` reference removed.

In both libraries both theme types are named the same -`DefaultTheme` and `DarkTheme`, so we alias them at the imports.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

// App.tsx

import {
  NavigationContainer,
  DarkTheme as NavigationDarkTheme,
  DefaultTheme as NavigationDefaultTheme,
} from "@react-navigation/native";
import {
  DarkTheme as PaperDarkTheme,
  DefaultTheme as PaperDefaultTheme,
  Provider as PaperProvider,
} from "react-native-paper";

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

export default function App() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaProvider>
      <PaperProvider>
        <NavigationContainer>
          <Stack.Navigator
            initialRouteName={Routes.list}
            headerMode="screen"
            screenOptions={{
              header: ({ scene, previous, navigation, ...rest }) => (
                <Header
                  scene={scene}
                  previous={previous}
                  navigation={navigation}
                  {...rest}
                />
              ),
            }}
          >
            <Stack.Screen name={Routes.list} component={CardScreen} />
            <Stack.Screen name={Routes.details} component={Details} />
          </Stack.Navigator>
        </NavigationContainer>
      </PaperProvider>
    </SafeAreaProvider>
  );
}

```

> Out goal here is to combine those two themes into one, so that we could control the theme for the entire application in a single place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal here is to combine those two themes into one so that we can control the theme for the entire application in a single place.
```

To make things easier we can use [deepmerge](https://www.npmjs.com/package/deepmerge) package. With `yarn` we can install it like this

> <code>yarn add deepmerge</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`\`\`sh
yarn add deepmerge
`\`\`
```

Reviewer: These slashes should be removed. I put it here just because gh automatically converted it to the code block XD

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

// App.tsx

import merge from "deepmerge";

const CombinedDefaultTheme = merge(PaperDefaultTheme, NavigationDefaultTheme);
const CombinedDarkTheme = merge(PaperDarkTheme, NavigationDarkTheme);
```

Alternatively, we could merge those themes with plain JavaScript

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

  const CombinedDefaultTheme = {

>     ...newLightTheme,

Reviewer: This is incorrect, right?

    ...NavigationDefaultTheme,
    colors: {

>       ...newLightTheme.colors,

Reviewer: Same here

      ...NavigationDefaultTheme.colors,
    },
  };
  const CombinedDarkTheme = {

>     ...newDarkTheme,

Reviewer: Here

    ...NavigationDarkTheme,
    colors: {

>       ...newDarkTheme.colors,

Reviewer: and here :D

      ...NavigationDarkTheme.colors,
    },
  };

```

After combining the themes, we will be able to control the theming in both libraries at the same time, which will come in handy later.

> Next, we need to pass combined themes into the wrappers. For this part, we use the dark one - `CombinedDarkTheme`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we need to pass combined themes into the Providers. For this part, we use the dark one - `CombinedDarkTheme`.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

// App.tsx
...
const CombinedDefaultTheme = merge(PaperDefaultTheme, NavigationDefaultTheme);
const CombinedDarkTheme = merge(PaperDarkTheme, NavigationDarkTheme);

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

export default function App() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaProvider>
      <PaperProvider theme={CombinedDarkTheme}>
        <NavigationContainer theme={CombinedDarkTheme}>
          <Stack.Navigator
            initialRouteName={Routes.list}
            headerMode="screen"
            screenOptions={{
              header: ({ scene, previous, navigation, ...rest }) => (
                <Header
                  scene={scene}
                  previous={previous}
                  navigation={navigation}
                  {...rest}
                />
              ),
            }}
          >
            <Stack.Screen name={Routes.list} component={CardScreen} />
            <Stack.Screen name={Routes.details} component={Details} />
          </Stack.Navigator>
        </NavigationContainer>
      </PaperProvider>
    </SafeAreaProvider>
  );
}
```

At this point, the app will be all dark!

> If you need help, checkout `darkMode` branch and continue following the guide from this point.

Reviewer: Samee as above

Author: Removed

![simulator-ios-24-04-2020-08-472](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41837132/80191395-ebfec900-8615-11ea-8813-538df4def6b9.jpg)

But we don't need to limit ourselves to the themes offered by libraries in default. Both packages allow for custom themes to be applied.
You can learn all about it their documentations:

- [Theming in React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/themes/)

> - [Theming in React Native Paper](https://callstack.github.io/react-native-paper/theming.html)

Reviewer: This should be relative path. Please check in other pages how to do this.

Now, we wouldn't want to stay forever with dark theme being on, which is why we need to gain the ability to control theme dynamically. We need to introduce some React state for this purpose.

> `React Context` proves itself very useful in handling cross-cutting concerns like global theme handling, so we will use just that.

Reviewer: Can we paraphrase these two sentences differently? It's not easy to understand when we first say we need React state and then we say we will use context.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

> // App.tsx

Reviewer: Also, I would remove the name of the file from snippets.

  const toggleTheme = React.useCallback(() => {
    return setIsThemeDark(!isThemeDark);
  }, [isThemeDark]);

  const preferences = React.useMemo(
    () => ({
      toggleTheme,
      isThemeDark,
    }),
    [toggleTheme, isThemeDark],
  );

  return (
    <SafeAreaProvider>
      <PreferencesContext.Provider value={preferences}>
        <PaperProvider theme={theme}>
          <NavigationContainer theme={theme}>
            <Stack.Navigator
              initialRouteName={Routes.list}
              headerMode="screen"
              screenOptions={{
                header: ({ scene, previous, navigation, ...rest }) => (
                  <Header
                    scene={scene}
                    previous={previous}
                    navigation={navigation}
                    {...rest}
                  />
                ),
              }}
            >
              <Stack.Screen name={Routes.list} component={CardScreen} />
              <Stack.Screen name={Routes.details} component={Details} />
            </Stack.Navigator>
          </NavigationContainer>
        </PaperProvider>
      </PreferencesContext.Provider>
    </SafeAreaProvider>
  );
}

```

> Context is already created for you, all you need to do is import it, as seen above. Now, as logic for switching between themes is ready, we need some UI element to control it. We will use `Paper`'s [Switch](https://callstack.github.io/react-native-paper/switch.html) for this end. All of the work is already done, just go to `src/components/Header` and uncomment the wrapped `<Switch />` component. `Header.tsx` should now look like this.

Reviewer: I would show how to build that context, it shouldn't be a lot of work. If the guide gets too long I would shorten the scope of it.

Reviewer 2: Agreed that it can be helpful

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```
